add option to have signed Credential Issuer metadata, remove `signed_metadata` from Credential Issuer metadata (#520)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

Communication with the Credential Issuer Metadata Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

To fetch the Credential Issuer Metadata, the Wallet MUST send an HTTP request using the GET method and the path formed following the steps above. The Wallet is RECOMMENDED to send an `Accept` Header in the HTTP GET request to indicate the Content Type(s) it supports, and by doing so, signaling whether it supports signed metadata.

The Credential Issuer MUST respond with HTTP Status Code 200 and return the Credential Issuer Metadata containing the parameters defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) as either

* an unsigned JSON document using the media type `application/json`, or
* a signed JSON Web Token (JWT) containing the Credential Issuer Metadata in its payload using the media type `application/jwt`.

> The Credential Issuer MUST indicate the media type of the returned Credential Issuer Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type` header. It is RECOMMENDED for Credential Issuers to respond with a `Content-Type` matching to the Wallet's requested `Accept` header. However, the Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept` header, e.g. if it doesn't support signed metadata or has another preference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MUST support returning metadata in an unsigned form 'application/json' and MAY support returning it in a signed form 'application/jwt'. In all cases the Credential Issuer MUST indicate the media type of the returned Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type` header. It is RECOMMENDED for Credential Issuers to respond with a `Content-Type` matching to the Wallet's requested `Accept` header when the content type is supported. However, the Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept` header, e.g. if it doesn't support signed metadata or has another preference.
```

Author: This changes imo the use case where an Issuer mandates a trust framework but the Wallet does not. In this case the Wallet will fail a little bit later but still fail. I think it doesn't change much in the end.

Accept-Language: fr-ch, fr;q=0.9, en;q=0.8, de;q=0.7, *;q=0.5
```

### Signed Metadata {#credential-issuer-signed-metadata}

The signed metadata MUST be secured using a JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and contain the following elements:

* in the JOSE header,

>   * `alg`: REQUIRED. A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry [@IANA.JOSE]. It MUST NOT be `none` or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).

Reviewer 2: I think we wanted to keep it simple to start with (that's how the oauth signed metadata and federation work too I believe) - it is possible that we could define a future mechanism using a header or where the issuer returns a json serialised response with multiple signatures.

>   * `typ`: REQUIRED. MUST be `openidvci-issuer-metadata+jwt`, which explicitly types the key proof JWT as recommended in Section 3.11 of [@!RFC8725].

Reviewer 3: We are missing the IANA registration part for this typ aren't we?

Author: I added it

* in the JWT body,
  * `iss`: OPTIONAL. String denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata
  * `sub`: REQUIRED. String matching the Credential Issuer identifier
  * `iat`: REQUIRED. Integer for the time at which the Credential Issuer Metadata was issued using the syntax defined in [@!RFC7519].
  * `exp`: OPTIONAL. Integer for the time at which the Credential Issuer Metadata is expiring, using the syntax defined in [@!RFC7519].

> The Wallet SHOULD establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE header parameters like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanisms how to do that are out of scope of this specification. 

Reviewer 3: Would HAIP then define how exactly the binding works for e.g., x5c?

> The Wallet SHOULD establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE header parameters like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanisms how to do that are out of scope of this specification. 

Author: To me MUST would feel to limiting in OpenID4VCI, could be mandated by profiles. I would be fine with suggestion from @c2bo

> The Wallet SHOULD establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE header parameters like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanisms how to do that are out of scope of this specification. 

Reviewer 4: I suggest to make it a MUST. If the wallet does not know how to process, it MUST fail.

> The Wallet SHOULD establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE header parameters like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanisms how to do that are out of scope of this specification. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata. Otherwise, the Wallet MUST reject the signed metadata. When validating the signature, the Wallet obtains the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE header parameters like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanisms how to do that are out of scope of this specification.
```

> The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata. Otherwise, the Wallet MUST reject the signed metadata. When validating the signature, the Wallet obtains the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE header parameters like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanisms how to do that are out of scope of this specification.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When requesting a signed metadata, the Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata. Otherwise, the Wallet MUST reject the signed metadata. When validating the signature, the Wallet obtains the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE header parameters like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanisms how to do that are out of scope of this specification.
```

Communication with the Credential Issuer Metadata Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

> To fetch the Credential Issuer Metadata, the Wallet MUST send an HTTP request using the GET method and the path formed following the steps above. The Wallet is RECOMMENDED to send an `Accept` Header in the HTTP GET request to indicate whether it supports signed metadata.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To fetch the Credential Issuer Metadata, the Wallet MUST send an HTTP request using the GET method and the path formed following the steps above. The Wallet is RECOMMENDED to send an `Accept` Header in the HTTP GET request to indicate the Content Type(s) it supports.
```

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
To fetch the Credential Issuer Metadata, the Wallet MUST send an HTTP request using the GET method and the path formed following the steps above. The Wallet is RECOMMENDED to send an `Accept` Header in the HTTP GET request to indicate the Content Type(s) it supports, and by doing so, signal whether it supports signed metadata.
```

@sloops77 I let myself add an improve it further. Saying straight that the mime type is used only determine wallet support for metadata is not ideal, but there's a value in keeping it explicit too.

Author: @tplooker to your first comment: I moved the sentence further to the back, the first paragraph is about the Wallet's request and the Accept header

> The Credential Issuer MUST respond with HTTP Status Code 200 and return the Credential Issuer Metadata containing the [parameters defined in this specification](#credential-issuer-parameters) as either:

Author: The either to me implies that the issuer can choose. In the next section, it says the issuer may ignite the accept header and send whatever he likes, so to me it seems signed metadata is optional. That means wallets must support both.

> The Credential Issuer MUST respond with HTTP Status Code 200 and return the Credential Issuer Metadata containing the [parameters defined in this specification](#credential-issuer-parameters) as either:

Reviewer: Im not sure I support making signed metadata required for wallet/client implementations I'd prefer we only require them to support unsigned which is consistent with the equivalent feature in OAuth and OpenID connect.

> The Credential Issuer MUST respond with HTTP Status Code 200 and return the Credential Issuer Metadata containing the [parameters defined in this specification](#credential-issuer-parameters) as either:

Reviewer 5: wg discussion. 
- no normative requirement for the wallet to support this.
- HAIP can mandate it.

* an unsigned JSON document using the media type `application/json`
* a signed JSON Web Token (JWT) containing the Credential Issuer Metadata in its payload using the media type `application/jwt`

> The Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept` Header. It MUST indicate the type of the returned Credential Issuer Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept` Header. If the Credential Issuer receives a request with an `Accept` header set to both media types then it SHOULD respond with a signed metadata format if possible (ie. `applicaiton/jwt`).  It MUST indicate the type of the returned Credential Issuer Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type`.
```

> The Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept-Content` Header. It MUST indicate the type of the returned Credential Issuer Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type`.

Reviewer 3: I know i kinda convinced you to remove a similar sentence, but it felt weird reading without any comment on what to do.

```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept-Content` Header. It MUST indicate the type of the returned Credential Issuer Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type`.
Issuer and Wallet policies regarding signed or unsigned metadata are out of scope of this document and should be defined on a ecosystem level (e.g. via a Profile).
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept` Header. It MUST indicate the type of the returned Credential Issuer Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type`.
```

Communication with the Credential Issuer Metadata Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

To fetch the Credential Issuer Metadata, the Wallet MUST send an HTTP request using the GET method and the path formed following the steps above. The Wallet is RECOMMENDED to send an `Accept` Header in the HTTP GET request to indicate the Content Type(s) it supports, and by doing so, signaling whether it supports signed metadata.

The Credential Issuer MUST respond with HTTP Status Code 200 and return the Credential Issuer Metadata containing the [parameters defined in this specification](#credential-issuer-parameters) as either:

* an unsigned JSON document using the media type `application/json`
* a signed JSON Web Token (JWT) containing the Credential Issuer Metadata in its payload using the media type `application/jwt`

> The Credential Issuer is RECOMMENDED to respond with a `Content-Type` matching to the Wallet's requested `Accept` Header. However, the Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept` Header. In any way, it MUST indicate the type of the returned Credential Issuer Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MUST indicate the media type of the returned Credential Issuer Metadata using the HTTP `Content-Type`. It is RECOMMENDED to respond with a `Content-Type` matching to the Wallet's requested `Accept` Header. However, the Credential Issuer MAY ignore the `Accept` Header.
```

Accept-Language: fr-ch, fr;q=0.9, en;q=0.8, de;q=0.7, *;q=0.5
```

### Signed Metadata

> The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain the following elements:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The signed metadata MUST be secured using a JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and contains the following elements:
```

* in the JOSE header,
  * `alg`: REQUIRED. A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry [@IANA.JOSE]. It MUST NOT be `none` or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
  * `typ`: REQUIRED. MUST be `key-attestation+jwt`, which explicitly types the key proof JWT as recommended in Section 3.11 of [@!RFC8725].

* in the JWT body,
  * `iss`: OPTIONAL. String denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata
  * `sub`: REQUIRED. String matching the Credential Issuer identifier
  * `iat`: REQUIRED. Integer for the time at which the Credential Issuer Metadata was issued using the syntax defined in [@!RFC7519].
  * `exp`: OPTIONAL. Integer for the time at which the Credential Issuer Metadata is expiring, using the syntax defined in [@!RFC7519].

> The Wallet SHOULD establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE headers like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Wallet SHOULD establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature before processing the metadata, e.g. using JOSE header parameters like `x5c`, `kid` or `trust_chain` to convey the public key. The concrete mechanisms how to do that are out of scope of this specification. 
```
